This video will do just that will load and angular component.
Well this would be pretty boring so we'll do it in an exciting way we're loaded dynamically as a custom
element.
As a native web component instead of normal angular component what's great about that and how does it
work.
Let's take a closer look at this and this video.
So let's get started with angular elements.
What is angular elements.
It's a feature of the angular framework that allows you to turn your normal angular components which
you use in your angular app into native web components Web Components are basically custom.
Team l elements you could say they are part of the of the DOM of the JavaScript API.
Are not related to angular and you can use them in vanilla javascript apps or it apps built with ABA
frameworks so let's weap components and that is what you can create with angular elements.
Now before you get too excited right now at the point of time I'm releasing this video when Engler 6
was released the Web Components are building with angular can only be used to angular project still
and the obvious question then is why would you build web components at all.
What is the use of angular elements if you can only use these elements inside of an angular app.
And the answer is they are useful for loading dynamic content.
So let's say you got a content management system on your back and on a server and there your editors
can create HTML code.
They know how to write HDL code and therefore they create the content that gets loaded into your angular
app.
NHT mail now so far that is fine.
But what if you actually want to enable them to also use some of your Angella components in th HTML
code they prepare.
If they do that if they use your angular components selectors and you then load this content dynamically
in your angler's app it will actually not work because your angular app is compiled ahead of time or
even with just in time compilation it's compiled before the content is loaded.
So if the content contains the selector off angular element of angular component does will not work
it will not recognize that.
Let me show you what I mean.
Here's a brand new angular project treated with the dangler Steeleye important.
If we check the package to Jason full I'm using angular were 6 and I'm using R x Chance version 6 and
I installed d r x as compact package to have no issues with our exchange.
This might be needed at the point of time recording this I needed for the angular element's package
which we'll use in the future you might not need this all angular pectus should by default support the.
Yes syntax if you want to learn more about what changed with angular 6.
And why does our exchange six thing is so important.
Check out the separate videos I created on that.
My English 6 update video a.r X-Trace 6 update video.
But back to the angular components.
Let's create a new component.
Let's name it.
Alert component baby.
A normal angular component.
So in their expert class alert component like this.
And of course we could create that with the Selye to all importante component decorator and then they're
all defined by selector which is app alert let's say.
And a template which could be of course an external too.
But here I'll simply add a def and inside of the def all say this is an alert and then we all even output
a message here.
So I'm stringing for pollution now last but not least I'll add my Stout's array here with a string in
there too to find some styles for this template and there I simply want to stumble.
Def give it a border of one pixels solid and black background of let's say Salmen.
So does this light red color and a padding of 10 pixels.
Last but not least let me also define font family and Salmen by the way should not be a string.
Let me to find the fun family of sincerity.
Now this is my style for the 40 alert.
Now the alert uses this message property so I have to add it here and I want to make this bind a bill
from outside Salt decorated with an input which I have to import from angular core.
And now with that decompiling it is finished and we can use it to use it.
We have to add it to our declarations that are right there.
I add my alert component and with it added here we can go to the app component to its H.T. mail file
to be precise and then there we can use my newly created app alert component like this.
And of course all to pass that message which since it's string can be passed like this without the square
brackets.
This is just a shortcut in case you are passing some text and there I could say this is normal and angular
component.
With that if we save all these files and we go back we see our computer in there now.
The styling didn't work yes I should add more semi-colons instead of commas with that.
Now we got this alert.
So it is a normal angular component.
Now let's say India apropos and we actually want to load this dynamically.
I got this content property there.
It's not initially.
And now let's say instead of outputting this component like this we have a death.
And on this Dith we use the inner HVM l property binding to bind to the content in the app component
in the constructor for simplicity reasons.
I can then add my timeout just to simulate that this is an asynchronous task and we're getting this
from a server.
We don't have to put it into a timeout.
We can also run this code once does app support loads just adding this to well give us a little bit
of time to prepare for the data to arrive I guess and then that function that executes here and set
timeout.
I now want to set this content to let's say a string that holds a female paragraph.
So those are obviously not using our element.
I just want to show you that this works.
We're now rendering this paragraph.
If we inspect that we see a paragraph is rendered to the Dom because we're using inner h mail.
Now what if we could use our own element there.
So if we could use an alert here like this app alert and now we also set a message of rendered dynamically
dynamically because we don't include it in our component template.
We are not including it in the app component h HTML.
But here we're hard coding it into our code but we could easily imagine that this is coming from an
API call that we're fetching this from a server.
So if we do it like this and then we reload our app we can wait forever.
We won't see anything here.
And if we expect our app route we see that the day if indeed it's empty.
So nothing gets rendered here.
And the reason for this is that this is rendered as h team l code but it's not recognized as an aged
female element Appleford.
Not a built in element.
It's our own component but that exactly is what I meant.
ENGLER will not consider this offer it has loaded our app because the compilation of the templates and
therefore the part where it understands your component selectors is already done by that point of time.
And this doesn't change if we removed this from said time out and executed right at the beginning of
this component.
So we don't see anything either.
So this is not the reason the reason indeed is that angular doesn't compile this code and angular elements
fixes this issue or this problem you could say.
It allows us to basically take our angular component and put it into a totally encapsulated self bootstrapping
aged female element which you can dump into your angular app in this way for example and which will
still work.
Now how do we create such a component.
We need to install angular elements and you can already see that I added an import appear create custom
element design has been lurking around for a while and it seems to be what we need.
No make sure that you install dangler elements package with NPM install that stash safe at angular elements
just in case this isn't installed already.
No I'm recording this with a beta version but of course.
But a point of time you're watching as it probably was released as part of the normal angular framework
so once it is installed you should also ensure that especially for a beta version might not be a problem
and later word is that you got our express compact because it is required for this to run at least right
now and very important that you add this line to your package touch chase and fall.
This is a Poley file which right now is required for this to run.
This might also change in the future but right now you need to add this.
So at this line with this person and rerun and given Stalder after to download it and add it to your
project and with that POLLI full installed you can go to the POLLI filles TS file and there you should
add these two lines.
Import the Web Components slash custom Elon's slash custom elements Dodman and import add Web Components
slash custom elements slash source slash native shim.
This might all change in the future but we now need to enable custom elements to ensure that this works
that the native element does custom elements package or dangler elements package spits out that this
element works therefore does as needed.
So with that all added with the POLLI fields added and with the package just added We can now try creating
a custom element and for this in the constructor of app component you want to do doesn't replace that
runs early in your project.
I'll create a new element and I'll name it.
Alert element.
The name is up to you of stored non-constant which is named like this and I will use create custom element.
And now I need to import my custom element.
I want to do this on the alert element so you should make sure that you add the import to that.
So import alert component from.
And now it's alert component and of course it should also be alert component elements the name the constant
but we pass in the component to create custom element create custom element also needs a second argument.
This argument is used to configure this element and there we need to pass the injector we're using now
angular uses dependency injection as you know and the injector is basically the tool which diasters
injection and we provided to this custom element so that the element behind the scenes is able to connect
itself to our apps so to say.
Therefore we simply inject inject or so import injector from an Anglo cord and with it injected in that
optic you're passing to create custom element you add the injector key.
And as a value the inject or you're injecting That's a lot of injection going on I guess.
So what we get it a custom element and design it already is a native web component.
Now we can use custom elements API and important.
This is not an angular feature.
This is a feature provided by javascript and called the Finder.
This allows us to register a custom web component and again Elford element is just such a component.
It's the same as we could have built on our own.
So therefore here we first of all define the task by which you want to select it and just doesn't have
to be the same one as down here.
So we could also use my dash alert for example and then you in the element so not the component but
Alerta elements or a custom element.
Now with this we can use that.
So down there was my alert instead of app alert because I changed tack.
And now if we save this it compiles and if we go to our application nothing happens.
But if we inspect the console we actually got an error that we.
Well that doesn't find a component factory.
Now as I said Engler elements are only available in angular apps right now.
So what we have to do at this point of time is we have to add the entry components array to our app
module components essentially as an array of components which you don't use with selector or wire routing
but where you want to tell angular that you're eventually going to use it.
And this is exactly what will happen for de-lurk component.
We declare it.
That's important sort of dangler can find it but we also need to tell angular hey you won't see me use
a selector for this.
You won't see me loaded with routeing but eventually I will need it.
So please be prepared to load it when I need it.
And that is why we also have to load the angler component X using the alert component not our custom
element but the angular component here into our entry components aere.
And if we do that and we save the app will reload and we get at least a warning not an error.
Sanitising h TMail stripped some content.
Now the custom element is in the end a bunch of javascript code and does this sanitize So this can be
rendered with enraged him.
That's a security mechanism to a white cross-site scripting attacks.
We wanted this mechanism but in this case we know our content is safe and therefore we want to be able
to output it.
We can do this with the help of the dom sanitiser.
You can also uncheck this it's that Thoms sanitizer object or class which you need to import from at
angular platform browser.
And with that injected you can wrap this custom m HTL code which again behind the scenes will use a
lot of javascript.
You can wrap this with Dom sanitiser bypass security trust H.T. mail.
So it does H.T. mail code and whatever is connected to it is trusted.
So now with that if we reload this we do see our alert after a second but this time it's loaded as custom
element.
If we inspect that we see our template here and we see the styles we apply to it.
But this now actually is loaded as native web component still only usable in angler projects.
This will probably change in the future though.
But already useful for dynamic content like this since we sanitize it you should of course make sure
that you know that descanted is safe.
But with that you've got a really great tool to load content into your app and control it as an angle
angular component and do all the fun stuff you can do with components whilst getting it from another
source which is not hard coded into your angular project code when you're compiling it.